docs(solr-drupal): [SITE-5999] add Dense Vector (AI semantic) search guide for Drupal (#10138)
pantheon-systems/documentation: src/source/content/guides/solr-drupal/05-dense-vector-search.md

---
title: Apache Solr for Drupal

> subtitle: Dense Vector (AI Semantic) Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
navtitle: AI Semantic Search
subtitle: Dense Vector (AI Semantic) Search
```

This setup uses contributed modules that Pantheon does not support, and an AI embedding provider that you bring yourself. It is not a Pantheon-supported feature.

</Alert>

## Before You Begin

- Complete the base [Pantheon Search setup](/guides/pantheon-search/solr-drupal/solr-drupal#before-you-begin) first.
- Install and enable the Search API Pantheon module. Refer to [Install the Search API Pantheon Module](/guides/pantheon-search/solr-drupal/solr-drupal#install-the-search-api-pantheon-module).
- Set Solr 9 in `pantheon.yml` (requires Solr 9.6+; Pantheon runs 9.10.1). Refer to [Configure the Solr Version](/guides/pantheon-search/solr-drupal/solr-drupal#configure-the-solr-version).
- Create a Search API server and index with Title and Body fields. Refer to [Add Search Index](/guides/pantheon-search/solr-drupal/solr-drupal#add-search-index).
- Install and authenticate [Terminus](/terminus).
- Make Composer changes with [Integrated Composer](/guides/integrated-composer) (commit only `composer.json` and `composer.lock`).
- Obtain an AI embedding provider account: Google Vertex AI, OpenAI, or Google Gemini (see below).

<Alert title="Note" type="info">

> **Multidev Solr version inheritance.** A multidev created from a Dev environment on Solr 8 inherits Solr 8 even when `pantheon.yml` specifies version 9, because the change is not detected as new. To force the upgrade, set the version to 8, commit and push, then set it to 9 and push again.

Author: ```suggestion
**Multidev Solr version inheritance.** Create the Multidev first, then change the Solr `version` in `pantheon.yml` on that branch and push. Do not set the version on a new local branch and then create the Multidev from it. The version won't apply if the Multidev is created from an environment (for example, Dev) that has a different Solr version set. If that happens, set the version back to 8, push, then set it to 9 and push again.
```

Author: @jazzsequence @rkunjappan reworded this a bit to clarify what thise specific scenario is, please review and add any suggestions

Reviewer: @rachelwhitton this seems mostly okay to me albeit a bit wordy. wdyt?

Reviewer 2: I also feel like this info is more appropriate to be added to the Solr 9 migration doc rather than added to the AI Search doc.

Reviewer 3: agreed with @rkunjappan 💯

Reviewer: That makes sense to me. I think we ship this as it is, make the addition in the Solr 9 migration doc and link back to that from here.

Reviewer: I will leave this comment open but merge the PR without the suggested change so we can go back and make a similar change on the other docs.

@rkunjappan maybe, since it looks like you've made changes to the relevant doc in #10145 you can add this note over there?

Reviewer 2: Yes, @jazzsequence , I will include this note in the other PR #10145
